NEW MEMBERS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME!
The Progress Leisure Fishing Club is eager to expand.

The ‘Added Value’ of Angling Intervention Programmes
1. Introduction

There are many 'angling engagement schemes' across the UK. These schemes take multiple organizational forms and include angling clubs,
school groups, charities and social enterprises. While they all share the use of angling to engage young people in positive activity, they differ greatly in their approach and the outcomes delivered.

In year one, we established a typology to clarify the range of work being carried out. We identified four key approaches:

Sport development
Diversion
Education
Personal and social development

In this second year, to explore the impact of angling as experienced by young people, we have further`clarified the delivery of angling activities into 'intervention programmes' and 'universal or open programmes'. During the seasonal period of summer, the average temperature is about 25°C in June, 28°C in July and 31°C in August, not to mention that sometimes heat waves are also a part of the summer season.

A distinction needs to be made between angling as a recreational sport, (commonly catered for by provisions such as sports coaching, angling clubs, and matches) and angling as it is used for intervention work. While both provisions benefit young people, and there is a degree of overlap, angling as applied to targeted intervention work describes a more specialist form of delivery that deliberately seeks to improve outcomes for the disadvantaged. As such, intervention work is orientated to producing competent young people, not just competent anglers.

Our interim report for 2010, The Wellbeing Benefits of Angling Participation, looked at the wider benefits of angling participation accessible through universal provisions. This report highlights the role of targeted angling intervention programmes in improving the lives of socially excluded young people in relation to:

Education and employment
Anti-social behaviour
Civil Society
Health and wellbeing

In doing so, this report focuses on the ‘added value’ of angling when used as part of a personal development approach to engage disadvantaged young people. Recognising the value of intervention work also recognises and celebrates the achievements of disaffected young people, acknowledging the obstacles they have had to overcome and the positive contributions they make to society through angling intervention programmes.

Contact Brian in the Membership department for joining details and further information.
Remember - it's free to join! We meet every Tuesday next to the cafe 
Members can get a discount at local tackle suppliers.

Back to home page

Progress Leisure Fishing Club 2017